Title: Git Reset Branch to Master (main)
Published: 10/10/2022
Tags:
  - Git
---

# How to Reset a Git Branch to Master (Main)

Resetting a branch to match the state of the `master` (or `main`, as it is now commonly called) branch is a common requirement, especially when you need to discard local changes or ensure that your branch starts fresh from a known good state. Below, I'll detail the Git commands necessary to perform this reset, explaining why and when you might need to use each command.

## Why Reset to Master?

There are several reasons why you might need to reset a branch to the `master`:
- **Discarding Experimental Changes:** If you have experimented on a branch and the changes are no longer needed, resetting to `master` allows you to start over with a clean slate.
- **Aligning with Updated Project Standards:** If `master` has received updates that include critical fixes or project standards changes, you might need to reset your branch to incorporate these before continuing your work.
- **Resolving Merge Conflicts:** Sometimes, it’s easier to reset your feature branch to `master` and reapply your changes incrementally than to resolve complex merge conflicts.

## Commands to Reset Your Branch

To reset your branch to align with `master`, follow these steps:

```bash
git clean --force
```
**Purpose**: This command removes all untracked files from your working directory. It is particularly useful for cleaning up generated files and build artifacts that are not part of the repository. Use this command with caution, as it will permanently delete these files.
```bash
git switch master
```
**Purpose**: Previously `git checkout master`, this command switches your current branch to `master`. This step ensures you are on the `master` branch to sync it with the remote or pull the latest updates before you reset your feature branch.
```bash
git switch -C {branchName}
```
**Purpose**: This command switches back to your original branch (replace `{branchName}` with your branch's name) and resets it to the current state of `master`. The `-C` flag forces the creation of the branch from the `master`, effectively overwriting it with `master`'s content.

## Conclusion

By following these steps, you can ensure your branch is reset and synced with `master`, providing a clean, up-to-date starting point for your work. These commands are powerful tools in Git's arsenal, helping maintain clean and manageable project histories. Always make sure to backup important changes or work in a test branch if unsure about the results of these operations.